<p><strong>The most important crypto lawsuit to date is SEC v Ripple, filed in December 2020 and still ongoing.</strong> The SEC alleges that Ripple’s sales of the XRP cryptocurrency constitute sales of “securities” and thus Ripple needs to be registered with the SEC, which it is not. <strong>This case is important because it gives us hints about (a) the future of XRP as an asset for US investors, (b) who the SEC might sue next, and (c) what happens to the price of a crypto when the company that issues such crypto gets sued by the SEC.</strong> </p> <p> When cryptos get sued by the SEC, they generally tank, and when cryptos exit a suit -- either through settlement or a decision by a judge -- they generally shoot back up. Ripple's XRP, true to the principle, tanked in December and has been slowly recovering as the case moves forward. <strong>The XRP bulls expect a big boom once the suit closes, even if Ripple loses, because once the suit is over, (i) US exchanges will likely re-list XRP after removing the coin in response to the suit and (ii) XRP will become less risky for institutional investors in the US that are spooked by active SEC litigation.</strong> </p> <p> <strong>The other side of this coin is that Ripple could lose badly</strong> and effectively be forced to relocate to outside the US, no doubt a significant impediment to operations and fundraising. But relocation is not necessarily an existential threat given Ripple’s popularity in Asia, especially Japan. </p> <p> <strong>Who will get sued next?</strong> Depends what Judge Analisa Torres of Manhattan federal district court has to say. If a respected Manhattan federal judge thinks Ripple is a security, that could set a persuasive (but not binding) precedent that implies almost any coin other than Bitcoin could potentially be a security and get sued by the SEC. Judge Torres will likely decide the case sometime in 2021 or early 2022, unless Ripple and the SEC can reach a settlement, which generally happens in high stakes litigation. </p> <p> <strong>Prepare for years if not decades of uncertainty on the issue of which coins are securities.</strong> If the Ripple case gets appealed to the New York-based Second Circuit Court of Appeals, that court will set a precedent that will bind all federal judges in New York, Connecticut, and Vermont. After the Court of Appeals decision, if there is one, the losing party will likely petition the Supreme Court to take the case. </p> <p> <strong>Eventually, I expect the Supreme Court will take a crypto case and write a decision that clarifies the crypto securities law, or Congress will step in and do it themselves.</strong> For now, SEC commish Gary Gensler can write rules that will provide some clarity.</p>
